Ranji Trophy Final Live Cricket Score Vidarbha vs Saurashtra : 6 wickets for Jadeja, Saurashtra need 206 to win Ranji Trophy
Live updates: Stunning spell by the left-armer. He nails Sarwate in front, but he has played a gem here. Falls on 49 and now Saurashtra need 206 to lift Ranji Trophy

14:45 hrs IST 6 wickets for Jadeja Stunning spell by the left-armer. He nails Sarwate in front, but he has played a gem here. Falls on 49 and now Saurashtra need 206 to lift Ranji Trophy





13:42 hrs IST Umesh departs Unadkat fires a full ball angled in, Umesh plays all around it and the ball sneaks between bat and pads and disturbs the stumps





13:22 hrs IST Wakhare out Dream continues for Jadeja. More than 50 wickets for him this season and he has struck again. Picks his 5-wicket haul. The arm-ball fired in and Wakhare is trapped in front. Dead duck there





13:00 hrs IST Mohit Kale dismissed Length ball, spinning back in, Kale looks to defend, but the ball breaks back in and hits his pad. Umpire says out, was it heading down the leg side? There was plenty of turn on offer. Saurashtra will not be complaining





11:31 hrs IST Karnewar departs Full and flighted on off stump, Karnewar drives, feet not close to the pitch and the ball takes the outside edge and Harvik Desai accepts the catch at first slip. Makvana was threatening and he finally has the breakthrough





10:38 hrs IST Vidarbha 5 down Unadkat is pumped, Jadeja is on fire and Vidarbha are 5 down. Sensational period of play for Saurashtra as they have picked up 3 quick wickets including Wasim Jaffer. Vidarbha lead by 84 runs





10:22 hrs IST Jadeja strikes The arm ball gets the job done, brings Satish forward who looks to play around the front pad, but is beaten on the inside edge and he has been adjudged out. Jadeja has brought his side back in this game





9:59 hrs IST Satish looking good He is watching the ball closely and has got his side off to a positive start on Day 4. This can get away from Saurashtra quickly if early wickets are not found



