IPL Auction 2019: The most expensive buys
NEW DELHI: The Indian Premier League (IPL) 2019 players' auction brought many surprises when the bidding kicked off in the Pink City of Jaipur. Many star players were unsold, while some managed to impress the franchises and bagged hefty price tags.The Indian pacer once again managed to impress the buyers at the auction. Unadkat, who was the top Indian grosser in the 2018 edition at Rs 11.5 crore, was bought back for a whopping Rs 8.40 crore by the Rajasthan Royals. Playing for the same outfit last season, Unadkat featured in 15 games and claimed 11 wickets.Little-known Chakaravarthy emerged as one of the biggest surprises of the auction, after he was sold for a whopping Rs 8.4 crore to the Kings XI Punjab. His base price was Rs 20 lakh. The youngster hit the jackpot, thanks largely to his spectacular show in the Tamil Nadu Premier League. He played a pivotal role in Madurai Panthers' title victory. The mystery spinner had an economy rate of 4.7 in the tournament.The gutsy 20-year-old allrounder owes his claim to fame to his exploits that were central to England's home Test series win against India earlier this year. He took four wickets in India's first innings and then scored a half-century in the Edgbaston Test, which won England the Test and Curran the Man-of-the-Match award. His base price at the auction on Tuesday was Rs 2 crore but an intense bidding war saw him become the most expensive foreign player in the coming season.The South African batsman has played for Delhi before in 2011, when the franchise was called the Delhi Daredevils. However, he could feature in only three matches. His latest exploits in the limited-overs versions of the game saw the interest among franchises sky-rocket, which made him richer by Rs 6.4 crore -- just behind Curran among the foreign playersWith a base price of Rs 75 lakh, the West Indies' swashbuckling allrounder entered the auction as a hot favourite. After an intense bidding battle among the teams, the Caribbean all-rounder was sold for Rs 5 crore to the Kolkata Knight Riders Sunrisers Hyderabad had paid Rs 2 crore to buy Brathwaite last season.Patel was the only cricketer retained by Kings XI Punjab last season but was released ahead of the IPL 2019 auction . The 24-year-old, who has represented India in 38 ODIs and 11 T20Is, was bought by Delhi Capitals for Rs 5 crore. The youngster entered the auction at a base price of Rs 1 crore.The medium-pacer last played for India three years ago in 2015, but owes his graduation to international level to the IPL -- after CSK captain MS Dhoni put his trust in Sharma and he responded during crunch situations. The bidding battle for him saw his base price of Rs 50 lakh swell to Rs 5 crore as the Chennai think-tank got their former player back in their dugout.The Mumbai medium-pacer, who bowls right-handed and bats left-handed, gave his reputation a massive lift by hitting five consecutive sixes twice. Pravin Tambe suffered at his hands in the Mumbai T20 league. Then, just a day before this auction, he did the same in a Ranji Trophy match against Baroda, in which he deposited Swapnil Singh in the stands with five sixes. Dube's base price was Rs 20 lakh.