India vs New Zealand: India vs New Zealand: How India clipped Kiwi wings to win ODI series
NEW DELHI: This was meant to be a tight contest -- world No. 2 India against world No. 3 New Zealand. Since 2009, the Kiwis had not lost a single ODI against India at home. But the past doesn't trouble Virat Kohli and company. On Monday, India walloped New Zealand by seven wickets and clinched the five-match series 3-0.During his knock of 60 in India's series-clinching victory, Kohli became the second batsman after Sachin Tendulkar to complete 5,000 runs in successful run-chases. He will now be off to a well-deserved break, having been rested for the remainder of the ODI series in New Zealand and the T20Is to follow.Here's a look at how India managed to clip the Kiwi wings to take an unassailable lead in the series:This triumph was primarily fashioned by the bowling unit. Earlier this month, New Zealand had blanked Sri Lanka 3-0. In each of the games, the hosts caned the Lankan bowling, turning up with scores of 371, 319, and 364. Against India, the Kiwis are yet to cross 250.Both the pacemen, Mohammed Shami (7 wickets) and Bhuvneshwar Kumar (4 wickets), made early inroads in every game, neutralising the big-hitting New Zealand line-up.Rohit Sharma and Shikhar Dhawan have scored two half-centuries apiece to underline why they are the best in the world.The middle order has been the problem child of Indian batting but not on this tour. Each player -- Ambati Rayudu, MS Dhoni, Kedar Jadhav, Dinesh Karthik -- has scored runs.Captain Kohli fields in the deep while 'keeper Dhoni marshals the inner ring. The trust between the two synergises the team.The sheer all-round quality -- depth in both batting and bowling, confidence and aggression -- of this team seems to unnerve and unsettle the opposition. Probably one of the reasons why the Kiwis failed to reproduce their form at home.The Black Caps have been clueless to the wiles of chimanam Kuldeep Yadav and leg-spinner Yuzvendra Chahal, who have enjoyed a combined haul fo 14 wickets. With 8 scalps, Yadav is the highest wicket-taker for either side.