Shubman Gill: From practicing on 'Manjis' to getting an India call-up
📽️📽️ #TeamIndia's latest recruit @RealShubmanGill was seen sweating out in the nets at his first training session… https://t.co/xzXPqpWOsE — BCCI (@BCCI) 1548126607000

NEW DELHI: Shubman Gill might be just 19 years old, but in a very short period of time, he has made sure that the people who call the shots in Indian cricket have noticed him.Now, he is back to where he announced himself to the world - New Zealand. This time as part of the senior India Men's cricket team.The opening batsman, who also batted at Number 3 in some matches of the 2018 ICC U-19 World Cup, hogged the limelight when he tormented world-class pace attacks in the tournament, which was held in New Zealand. He finished the tournament as the highest run-getter for India and also walked away with the Man of the Series award.And he hasn't had to look back since then.From bagging a lucrative Indian Premier League (IPL) deal ahead of the 2018 edition to becoming the highest run-getter for Punjab in the 2018-19 Ranji Trophy, Shubman’s willow sent a clear message to the selectors that he looks like the real deal. The 19-year-old scored 728 runs in 5 matches (9 innings) at an average of 104.00 in the 2018-19 Ranji Trophy season.Due to his rich vein of form, Shubman was called-up for the ODI and T20I series against New Zealand in New Zealand as a replacement after KL Rahul was suspended. Though he was not in the playing XI for the first ODI, Shubman will be learning a lot for sure, just being part of the Indian dressing room. He has also, according to reports, been very impressive in net sessions after touching down in New Zealand.“I was in my bedroom and about to sleep when all of a sudden my phone rang. One of my friends called me and told me about my selection. I was so happy. I didn’t expect the call-up. I immediately told my father. He was extremely happy and hugged me,” Shubman told Timesofindia.com in an exclusive interview.Shubman knows a thing or two about the conditions in New Zealand. He played two List A and one first-class match for India A against New Zealand A in November-December last year and the 19-year-old thinks that the experience will help him on the current New Zealand tour, if he does get a chance to make his India debut.“I have played a number of games in New Zealand and know the conditions. I am sure I will quickly adjust as per the conditions. I have practiced hard and worked a lot on my fitness. I want to thank my coach, father, brother and (Rahul) Dravid sir for making this possible,” the youngster told TimesofIndia.com.With Rahul Dravid guiding the team as coach, Shubman scored 372 runs in 6 matches at an astonishing average of 124.00 in the previous edition of the ICC U-19 World Cup, which India won. He scored one century and three fifties.“The credit for this (India call-up) goes to Rahul sir. He was always there for me. I learnt a lot from him. Not just me, he observes every single player in the team during net practice and then gives tips” Shubman said.After playing a vital role in India’s Under-19 World Cup title win, Shubman bagged a lucrative deal in the Indian Premier League (IPL) 2018 auction when he was bought for Rs. 1.8 crore by the Kolkata Knight Riders. The youngster, from Fazilka in Punjab played 13 matches in his debut IPL season and scored 203 runs at an average of 33.83.Shubman also spoke about a very interesting technique adopted by his father Lakhwinder Singh to improve his batting technique.“My father is my idol. He has worked really hard to make me a good batsman. He used to make me stand on one side of a 'Manji' (a woven Indian bed also called chaarpai, khaat or khatia) and bowl to me with a tennis ball from the other end. The ball used to skid off the surface and come at me at high speed. I used to play around 600 such deliveries in a day.” Shubman said.Shubman admires Indian skipper Virat Kohli and batting icon Sachin Tendulkar “I admire Sachin Tendulkar and Virat Kohli. I just stay, analyse the situation and play accordingly. I want to be a match-winner for my team,” Shubman told TimesofIndia.com.Shubman of course will be itching to make his India debut on the current tour of New Zealand. But, even if he doesn't make the cut this time around, he is one youngster you will be hearing a lot about perhaps in the years to come.