Zaheer bhai taught me his toe crushers, says Siddarth Kaul
CHANDIGARH: Indian cricket captain Virat Kohli wants to go with four pacers for the world cup. Jasprit Bumrah and Bhuvneshwar Kumar play as spearheads, leaving Mohammed Shami, Khaleel Ahmed, Shardul Thakur , Mohammed Siraj, and Siddarth Kaul to work for the other two spots.Punjab's Siddarth Kaul, 28, is one of the few shining fast bowlers on the Indian domestic circuit, with 23 wickets at an average of 25.30 in six matches of this Ranji Trophy season. Fresh from an impressive India A tour of New Zealand, where he collected seven wickets in three List A matches, he opened up to TOI about the magic of training with Zaheer Khan, former bowling captain who is still the go-to guy six years after his last one day international.During the Asia Cup, (Indian opener) Rohit Sharma advised me to go to Zak Pa. The legend has truckloads of experience of bowling on overseas wickets. Just 15 days with him in Mumbai made a huge difference to my bowling. For the first four days, he made me bowl only yorkers. I could always bowl in the block hole but he taught me the pinpoint execution of a toe crusher. Apart from yorker, we also worked on the knuckle ball and a couple of more variations. The Zak magic has given me a fresh mindset. I also pick the brains of Ashish Nehra regularly.There in December with India A, I had seven wickets in three matches. Knowing the conditions well makes me up for the challenge. I follow my preparation routine to be ready to give 100% on any chance I get. Delivering my best is a habit.I want to throw my hat in. Ever cricketer dreams of playing in the world cup. I have heard so many stories from Yuvi Pa (Yuvraj Singh) and Bhajju Pa (Harbhajan Singh) about India's world cup triumphs of 2007 (T20) and 2011 (ODI). I am a firm believer in process. My first task is to do well in New Zealand. It's is your performance that should do the talking, not your words.All my achievements are because of Ranji Trophy. Playing on different tracks across the country helped me evolve as a cricketer. In the current season, two of my finest spells, both of six wickets in the first innings, came on contrasting surfaces - an unprepared pitch at (Feroz Shah) Kotla against Delhi, and a green top in Mohali against Kerala.I am disappointed that we couldn't play in the knockouts. We had the team to win the title. Look at Shubman, Jiwanjot, Mandy (Mandeep), Yuvi Pa, Anmolpreet, Gurkeerat, Markande, there are so many match winners. I don't know what went wrong but I am still upset about it.It was a tweet from the god of cricket (Sachin Tendulkar) after my debut against Ireland. My elder brother (Uday Kaul) called me about it and I was like: 'What, seriously! Are you making a fool of me?' But when I saw the tweet, I can't tell you how it felt. Priceless.