Hesson predicts 3-2 series win for New Zealand
CHENNAI: The five-match India-New Zealand ODI series - starting with the opener at Napier on Wednesday - presents an opportunity for Virat Kohli's side to carry on with the good work that they did in Australia. However, Kohli & Co will remember that the last time they played New Zealand in an ODI series at their backyard - the latter had won 4-0.Former New Zealand coach Mike Hesson believes there is very little separating the two teams. "It will be a great chance for both sides to assess where they are at the moment leading to the World Cup. This series is going to be a very close one and it could be 3-2 in Black Caps' favour," Hesson told TOI.Hesson felt the series could be a tussle between the Indian batsmen and New Zealand's bowlers. "I think that's going to be a key contest. Also, it will be interesting to see how the New Zealand middle-order combats India's slow-ball bowlers," Hesson said.According to the 44-year-old, the best chance for the Kiwi bowlers to put pressure on the Indian batsmen will be in the initial stages. "The challenge for our bowlers is to get them out before they are set. It's about having a plan to dismiss them within the first 10-15 balls. If we can create that opportunity then there's a good chance (for us)," Hesson said.Hesson, who was in charge of New Zealand from 2012-18, pointed out the three key areas where Kane Williamson 's side needs to fine-tune heading to the World Cup. "The role of opener Colin Munro could be critical as he is a big player and getting the side to a quick start will be essential in England. Secondly, getting the new-ball attack right is crucial. New Zealand will need both Tim Southee and Trent Boult to fire. Also, the ability to be able to take wickets in the middle overs remains a vital aspect. If we can't do that, good sides will punish us," Hesson said.Hesson, who has seen Kane Williamson's growth from close quarters, believes the 28-year-old could be New Zealand's greatest in the coming years. "Kane is getting better and better all the time - both as a player and as skipper. The more experience he gains, the more confident he gets. He is a lot quicker in making decisions now and that comes with confidence," Hesson said.How does he compare Williamson with Brendon McCullum as a captain? "Both are excellent captains. Brendon was probably more proactive and a bit of a risk-taker," he said.