India vs New Zealand: Trent Boult will be a handful against India, says Dion Nash
CHENNAI: Former NZ medium-pacer Dion Nash always enjoyed playing against India. His best Test figures of 6 for 27 arrived in Mohali and Nash got the prized wicket of Sachin Tendulkar on 6 occasions - three occasions each in ODIs and Tests. As the India-NZ ODIs kick off in Napier on Wednesday, the 47-year-old spoke to TOI on the Black Caps' chances against Virat Kohli 's men and more. Excerpts:It will be a hard fought and exciting series. I think NZ playing at home is a tough opposition, but so is India - the premier ODI side going around - so it will be a great series.Kane is going great. He is pretty experienced now and has a strong team of leaders behind him. I like his demeanor and to my eye he has a very good reading of the game. He is aggressive and attacking but stays balanced and calm.We have good depth presently, but we are led by Trent Boult and Tim Southee . I think Trent may be the best bowler out there presently. So I hope his form continues and then it is up to the other guys to play their role.More and more of it is about the batting as teams are expected to score 300-plus. Having said that, it's bowling that wins (or loses) games - so I believe the team that bowls best right through the series will win it. I am just glad I don't have to bowl on those pitches with those size boundaries against these new bats. I can only imagine what Sachin would have done today.Not really. I think both Kane and Ross Taylor 's records speak for themselves, but it suits each character. In that I think Kohli enjoys and maybe craves the limelight whereas Kane and Ross maybe prefer the shade. All of them can bat though!I'm not as familiar with them as I should be, so it would be unfair of me to pass too much comment on individuals, except to say India's record of recent times speaks for itself. To win games you need a strong bowling unit that plays to its strengths, clearly that's the case with this group.It is impossible to rate people outside of their era. The game changes as do the conditions and styles they are being asked to play. But Kohli is the best in class for his era. But just like all batsmen he makes mistakes under pressure. So, as a bowler you need to create this environment when he gets to the crease. That means being aggressive, disciplined and not backing off even for a moment. Even then, the best players in the world can get away. But you just have to stay in the game as eventually things turn your way if you hang in there.The team with the best bowling attack and bowling plans will win the World Cup. So, in that sense both those names will be essential for our chances. I also think they are both inspirational players that can lift the players around them. Yes they are crucial to the Black Caps chances.He has been one of the best around in my view for some time. He will be a handful here against India.Just stay fit. It's such a demanding job and so physical. The hardest part of playing at the top for a long time is just staying injury-free and getting a good run of form. I think he has it covered though as he is strong and flexible. Skill wise he has it all going on.Test cricket is still the real game. Unfortunately it does not pay the bills. If my career was starting out now, I think I would pick T20s and Tests and kindly pass on the ODIs. But Test cricket in my mind is and will always be the only real form of the game and the one that ultimately marks how good a player you are.